# C++ 20

After the publish of C++ 20, the size of community grows significantly. 

## How It Changes the Way We Code

Before C++ 11, the code can be quite long. For example, suppose we have a `std::vector<std::vector<int> >`, a vector of vector of int, we cannot write two `>` together because it would be recognized as a right shift operator. We also cannot use `auto` to replace the declaration of types with long name such as `std::vector<std::vector<int> >::iterator`. The initialization of the vector could also be troublesome as we don't have list initialization.

### Coroutines

Coroutines are computer program components that generalize subroutines for non-pre-emptive multitasking, by allowing execution to be suspended and resumed.

In C++ 20, there is a new `yield` feature that remembers the state of the function and gets back the caller code. The function will be paused until it is called again. That would save us the space for static variable and allow access to it by a while loop with yield. For example, `while(true) co_yield i++;` will return a incremental series when function is called.

However, this is not enough yet. The function using `co_yield` must be a generator type. The return value of the generator is called a *promise type*. Then there is a function `std::coroutine` points to a memory address called *coroutine frame*.

We can imagine the coroutine frame as a stack frame of a normal function which stores the input arguments and local variables. The coroutine frame stores the variable of function (not delete them after the end of the function). It is like what happens in lambda expression: `auto g = [i = 0] mutable { return i ++}`, where the coroutine frame can store multiple objects.

Unfortunately, there is no `std::generator` is C++ 20 (will be in C++ 23). So we have to implement them by ourselves. In the implementation, we need to write the promise as a container that stores the return value when suspended and hands out the value to the function when required, while the generator tells it when to be suspended and when to be required.

When we have multiple threads working with multiple objects, we could easily go into a callback hell. With the Coroutines, we can have a much clearer structure and more efficient assignments.

### Concepts

Imagine a case that we want to use binary operation to check if a number is power of 2: `return (i > 0) && (i & (i - 1) == 0);`. If we want to include all the number types, we would better use the template. However, the binary and might be errored out by floating numbers. The error message could be quite unreadable and very messy when we apply more complicated objects to the template. Besides, what if we want to test if the floating number if a negative power of 2?

The easiest way is to add a if that checks `std::if_integral<T>`, but it simply add more depth into the function. Another way to do this is to write `auto is_power_of_2 -> std::enable_if_t<std::is_integral<T>, bool> { ...}` to split the function. There are other positions we could add the "split check":

- add into arguments: `is_power_of_2(T i, std::enable_if_t<std::is_integral<T>, int> = 0`
- add into template titles: `template <typename T, std::enable_if_t<std::is_integral<T>, int> = 0>` (this might not be legitimate here as people might put value in int, so the safest way is to replace the int by void* and 0 by nullptr).

The lines are long and unnecessary. C++ 20 simplifies them by:

 - `template <typename T> requires std::integral<T>`
 - `template <std::integral T>`
 - `bool is_power_of_2(std::integral auto i)`

This kind of check is instantiated as *concept* in C++ 20. We can directly declare the concept under the template_name like `concept my_type = std::is...<T> || sizeof(T) == 8;` and have the concept as function argument type. In that case, even the error msg will be simpler (type A does not satisfy concept B by ...).

### Modules

When we include the h files in the cpp files, what the compiler do is to copy paste the header files into the cpp files. Although it is good that the files are not dependent to each other so that it can be done in parallel, it create more than needed number of lines. When multiple headers include each other, we could also have problems of the recursion. The other bad thing is that the macro is leaking to other files and messing up with data.

Modules solve all these problems. We write all the codes from h files into a cppm files and write `export module A`. In the cpp file, we can also export the module and import the module by `import A`. C++ 20 changes the compilation structure into trees.
